# Run the Playbooks
## Overview
For installing disconnected clusters, you will mostly be following rhe same process as a standard connected cluster.

The main additional steps we would be doing is mirroring the OCP images to another registry which is accessible to
the cluster and post the cluster coming up, we will be applying operator hub manifests such as image content source
policy and catalog source, generated by `oc-mirror`, to the cluster.

Disconnected playbook are mentioned below. Please refer the **4 Run the Playbooks** documentation for details of rest of the playbooks:

* disconnected_mirror_artifacts.yaml ([code](https://github.com/IBM/Ansible-OpenShift-Provisioning/blob/main/playbooks/disconnected_mirror_artifacts.yaml)) - Run before **6_create_nodes.yaml**
* disconnected_apply_operator_manifests.yaml ([code](https://github.com/IBM/Ansible-OpenShift-Provisioning/blob/main/playbooks/disconnected_apply_operator_manifests.yaml)) - Run after **7_ocp_verification.yaml**
## Pre-requisites
* A running registry where the OCP and operator hub images will be mirrored. If the CA of this registry is not automatically trusted, then keep the 
  CA cert content handy to update in inventory file. The CA cert is the file with which, do dont need to skip tls to access the registry.
* Make sure you have required pull secrets handy. You will need 2 pull secrets, one to apply on the cluster and another which will be used for 
  mirroring. The mirroring  pull secret MUST have push access to the mirror registry as well as must give you access to Red Hat registries. 
  A good way to create this would be take the Red Hat pull secret from **Get Info page** and do a podman login with creds having write access.

    ```
    cp -avrf /path/to/redhat-pull-secrets.json ./mirror-secret.json
    podman login -u admin -p admin <mirror_registry> --tls-verify=false --authfile=./mirror-secret.json
    cat ./mirror-secret.json | jq -r tostring
    <copy this output>
    ```

* A mirror host. This can be any host that can access the internet (mainly the registry being mirrored from) as well as the registry being mirrored to.
  This registries being mirrored from would typically be the Red Hat registries (registry.redhat.io, quay.io etc)
* The file server, configured mentioned below.
* Appropriately updated variables in your `all.yaml`. Refer the variables documentation.
### File Server
This configuration will take place on the file server mentioned under **File Server** section in overall pre-requisites documentaion. The additional
configurations are mentioned over here.

* Make sure to have a directory housing the clients

    * For FTP:

      ```
      sudo mkdir /home/<username>/clients
      ```

    * or HTTP:

      ```
      sudo mkdir /var/www/html/clients
      ```

  Make sure this directory contains a pre-downloaded `oc-mirror` binary in `tar.gz` format. Currently the supported binary is available for `x86_64` on Red Hat Customer portal openshift [downloads](https://console.redhat.com/openshift/downloads) page. It can also be found on mirror.openshift.com from `4.14` onwards for other architectures.
### NOTE 
* At this stage, only oc-mirror binary is fetched from File Server, so it is expected that the lpar for disconnected cluster can at least reach `mirror.openshift.com` to download the
  other artifacts for cluster installation.
* The platorm related image content source policy will be baked into the install config as part of **5 Setup Bastion Playbook**. 
* Right now on legacy platform mirroring is supported in this playook during the creation of the cluster. 
* Manifests generated by `oc-mirror` will be applied to the cluster cluster up. So if you add platform details in image set, it
  will be applied on cluster only after the cluster is up.

## Disconnected Mirror Artifacts Playbook
### Overview
Mirror the ocp platform and other necessary images to the mirror registry. Please run this playbook before you run **6 Create Nodes Playbook** and after
**0 Setup Playbook**.
### Outcomes
* Download `oc` and `oc-mirror` to the mirror host.
* Template the mirror pull secret to the mirror host.
* Add the ca cert to the mirror host anchors if ca is not trusted.
* Mirror the platform images using `oc adm release mirror` if legacy mirroring is enabled.
* Template the image set to mirror host and then mirror it using `oc-mirror` plogin.
* Copy the results on the `oc-mirror` to ansible controller to apply to cluster in future steps.
### Notes
* Currently, platform can **only** be mirrored the legacy way. While the image set can contain platform mirroring configs, it will **not** be applied to cluster during creation. 
* This playbook can be run at any stage after the **0 Setup** playbook. Make sure to run this before the cluster starts pulling at the images from the registry 
  which typically happens where the **Create Nodes Playbook** is run.

# Disconnected apply oc mirror manifests to cluster Playbook
### Overview
Post cluster creation, `oc-mirror` manifests are applied to the cluster. Please run this playbook after **7 OCP Verification Playbook**.
### Outcomes
* Copy the `oc-mirror` results manifests to the bastion.
* Apply the copied manifests to the cluster.
* Disable default content sources.
